This page needs to add additional information about what is needed to get the
Glibc test suite to pass, such as the SysV module.

Enable extended attributes for your file system, for file system Posix
capabilities, Access Control Lists, and security markings:
	CONFIG_EXT2_FS_XATTR
	CONFIG_EXT3_FS_XATTR
	CONFIG_REISERFS_FS_XATTR
	CONFIG_EXT2_FS_POSIX_ACL
	CONFIG_EXT3_FS_POSIX_ACL
	CONFIG_REISERFS_FS_POSIX_ACL
	CONFIG_EXT2_FS_SECURITY
	CONFIG_EXT3_FS_SECURITY
	CONFIG_REISERFS_FS_SECURITY

Enable Linux capabilities, and filesystem capabilities:
	CONFIG_SECURITY_CAPABILITIES
	CONFIG_SECURITY_FILE_CAPABILITIES

Enable Loop-AES for encrypted swap:
	BLK_DEV_LOOP_AES
	BLK_DEV_LOOP_KEYSCRUB

All the Grsec and PaX options can be enabled, but some should be disabled for
the best security. 

Do _NOT_ enable the following (we don't need, or use, them): 
	CONFIG_PAX_SOFTMODE
	CONFIG_PAX_EI_PAX
	CONFIG_PAX_EMUTRAMP

The SOFTMODE means settings will not be enforced; this is for curious users or
for debugging problems. EI_PAX is for supporting legacy markings which we do
not have (see below). PAX_EMUTRAMP is usefull for Glibc's localedef if it is
not modified, but in general the PAX_EMUTRAMP option should be avoided if
possible. These three options reduce security.

Do enable the following:
	CONFIG_PAX_PT_PAX_FLAGS

This option tells the PaX kernel that we have PaX elf header markings, which
are placed by our patched version of Binutils. This is the preferred method
which replaces EI_PAX.

Under "Grsecurity -> Executable Protections -> Trusted Path Execution" you may
want to enable:
	CONFIG_GRKERNSEC_TPE

This option enables 'Trusted Path Execution'. Like the help says, this option
is used to restrict which programs users can run depending on the program
ownership and permissions. This can disallow users from running programs they
build or install.

Most administrators will not want to enable this option. This slightly loosens
the 'Trusted Path Execution' restrictions, allowing users to run thier own
programs, but not programs in another user's directory.

	CONFIG_GRKERNSEC_TPE_ALL

To only allow selected users to run their own programs enable:
	CONFIG_GRKERNSEC_TPE_INVERT

Choose the numeric GID for your trusted group. Users in this group will be able
to run programs that are not in a directory owned by root, or programs that are
world or group writtable. Generally this means these users can run their own
programs. If you compile software as a non-root user, then that user will need
to be added to this group. Alternately you could set this to GID 0, and add
your trusted users to the root group. Otherwise you will probably need to run
something like groupadd -g 1005 trusted.

If you plan to use the X11 windowing system, then the options
CONFIG_GRKERNSEC_KMEM and CONFIG_GRKERNSEC_IO, in the Grsecurity "Address Space
Protection" menu, should be disabled. See the help for those options for more
details.

Be warned that the CONFIG_GRKERNSEC_IO option, which disallows modifying the
kernel in memory while its loaded, breaks pnpdump(8) from Isatools.

All the rest of the options will increase system security.

The kernel will build with -D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2, and will disable SSP
automatically. There is a performance penalty when building the kernel with
-D_FORTIFY_SOURCE=2, which can be disabled by building with make
CC="gcc -U_FORTIFY_SOURCE".

